When everyone is sick, we no longer consider it a disease. When illness and self-limitation is so normalised that its absence is classed as unnormal, you know it is deeply ingrained in society.

You might have heard of "nofap" before, but if you have not, most people hear about it in a similar way. Through a YouTube video that popped up as a suggestion, a link a friend sent us, or even a meme. If you have been linked this book, you must have been intregued to see what lies within. However, for those of you that have already heard of "nofap" you will likely know the sad truth around the "community" of hopeless users in the same cycle.

Most people join the bandwagon of porn, as most people use it, so 'it must be fine', denouncing any evidence proving them wrong as they would rather be blissful in ignorance than living in truth. However, nothing can escape the fact that PMO has numerous adverse effects on the 'casual' user and 'heavy' user alike.

Over the decades, hypersexualization has increased, and people are further pushing the limits of what they believe to be acceptable. Questions on purity are answered with delusion and as a result, purity is ever-more thrown out of the window. Internet porn adds fuel to the fire in this regard. In this age of information, everything can be accessed immediately, for free. This makes impulsive decisions easier as there is little resistance in between getting what you want.

This hypersexualization has risen along with porn and masturbation use, which are both damaging to productivity and performance. Pornography and hypersexualization are some of the biggest, but at the same time most overlooked, problems of the modern world.

If you want to know some stats, the average age that most people first see pornography is 11 years old. Children under the age of 10 make up 22% of online porn consumption for those under 18. Imagine your 10 year old son or daughter viewing the front page of a porn site behind close doors. It is almost sickly to think about.

This is the modern struggle: Lone individuals summoning inhuman willpower, fasting, meditating, and exercising... Up against armies of scientists and statisticians weaponizing abundant food, screens, and medicine into junk food, clickbait news, infinite porn, endless games, and addictive drugs. But just what are the negative effects?

Porn mainly has negative effects to do with the dopaminergic (dopamine) system. Masturbation on its own significantly decreases 30+ vitamins/nutrients, bodily energy, and life force (what you could call "aura"). When porn and masturbation are combined these effects are multiplied. This is important because to have peace of mind, you have to have peace of body first.

Negative effects span from low energy, low motivation, lessened ability to do work, lowered respect for women, depression, anxiety when interacting with others, porn-induced erectile dysfunction, relationship problems, acne, obsession with porn and fantasies, questioning sexuality despite no previous interest, and more. General rule of thumb is physical negatives are to do with frequent masturbation and mental negatives are to do with porn.

**People believe "nofap" provides benefits, but it is really the negatives of PMO itself being absent.**

These negative effects are not anecdotal and do not happen to a minority group. Instead, all people that do PMO suffer some degree of these symptoms, no matter if they realize it. Like the analogy of the 'boiling frog', if a change occurs slowly and we do not know it, we are unlikely to notice. Many problems in our personal lives could be directly or indirectly related to PMO, yet we may be none the wiser. However, there is not much point in proving these negative effects (over again), as **the neurochemical effects of porn are scientifically and anecdotally well understood**. Just ask any ex-user that has been entirely freed from porn and masturbation. Unless they thought they would gain superpowers using nofap, the user would likely explain the positive changes they experienced after leaving.

So, let's return to the idea that we might have discovered nofap through a YouTube video. Hundreds of YouTubers have made videos on quitting porn and masturbation, with thousands of videos advising about quitting. However, there lies a sad truth - most advice given by these 'self-development' YouTubers/mentors has a meager success rate.

This is because people approach leaving PMO with a need for motivation. Some things can be broken with motivation, but habits/addictions cannot. Many "influencers" also use motivation as the primary cause for doing nofap. **Motivation is temporary**.

To me, the mind should be a servant and a tool, not a master. The monkey mind should not control and drive you 24/7. Personally, I’m not going to be the most successful person on the planet, nor do I want to be. I just want to be the most successful version of myself while working the least hard possible. And with energy sinks like porn and masturbation in life, it will hinder these kinds of aspirations, and your journey of growth.

## False Incentives

Be aware not to base your reasoning for quitting on any false incentives. Some of us may want to quit to appease our friends, make our partners happier, be better than people we view as "degenerate" or become more disciplined. Even though these are great ways to discover nofap, these incentives create the perfect excuse for us to relapse when we are experiencing negative emotions.

- "I don't care what my friend thinks; it is not a big deal anyway."
- "She is already happy. It really is not that bad."
- "I can just do it less, and I can still be disciplined."
- "I will just do it rarely."
- "I will just watch the 'soft stuff'."

False incentives provide the ammo to fuel your brain's defense mechanisms. As a response to what our brains interpret as a threat, we have some key reactions. We dismiss opposing views and make illogical justifications and excuses for our actions. Defense mechanisms are what your brain uses when you are in a reactionary state, so instead of having a false incentive, you should have an incentive grounded in yourself.

Forget the initial incentive for being interested or wanting to quit. Make the understanding now (and continue to as you learn) that porn and masturbation has no benefit to us. We may think this statement to be untrue as we imagine what we receive as pleasure and the reward we get after using, but this is just another way that defense mechanisms have shown themselves. You will understand this truth soon.

Do not quit for anybody else. Quit for yourself.