Porn is not a disease. Porn is a voluntary behavior.

You may push back against this statement, however it is true. You will only use porn if you see some benefit to it, and only if it is the most attractive path at one time.

((fear))

Just because you accidentally see porn or someone naked, does not create negative dopamine effect. Actively seeking porn or lewd material for pleasure does.

“Everyone is failing, so how isn’t it likely that I too will fail?” And this is what I call, “The Failure Circle”. One person fails because they failed to follow instructions, and then those that hear of this person’s failure get doubt and fear of failure, and thus slip up. Their slip ups are reported within an online community, and others who see them get doubt and fear as well, and it goes on and on and on. They get the false impression that it’s hard, and thus it becomes hard.

((emotion))

An emotion is our evolved biology predicting the future impact of a current event. In modern settings, it’s usually exaggerated or wrong.

((habitual pathways))

Habits are everything—everything we are. We are trained in habits from when we are children, including potty training, when to cry and when not to, how to smile and when not to. These things become habits—behaviors we learn and integrate into ourselves. 

When we’re older, we’re a collection of thousands of habits constantly running subconsciously. We have a little bit of extra brainpower in our neocortex for solving new problems. You become your habits.

"You have to take a second to sit down, to thoroughly observe your patterns. Do you move when you don't want to move, do you get angry when you don't want to get angry; you have to fix these things about yourself, you have to give a fuck about yourself and that makes life so much better." - XXXTentacion